Contributed EmailAddress Scalar (#22)
graphql/graphql-scalars: scalars/contributed/Juke-Duke/email-address.md

**License and Copyright**

Copyright © GraphQL contributors. This specification is licensed under
[OWFa 1.0](https://www.openwebfoundation.org/the-agreements/the-owf-1-0-agreements-granted-claims/owfa-1-0).

# Overview

This Scalar represents a valid electronic mail address using a simplified version of [RFC 5322](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322).

The format of an email address is `local@domain`, where the local part may consist of up to 64 UTF-8 characters, the domain part may consist of up to 255 UTF-8 characters, and the two parts are separated by an `@` sign.

Other formats, including using square-bracketed IP addresses in the domain part, and quoted-string local parts, are not supported for simplicity.

The local part may contain any of the following ASCII characters:
- Uppercase and lowercase Latin letters `A` to `Z` and `a` to `z`
- Digits `0` to `9`
- Printable characters ``!#$%&'*+-/=?^_`{|}~``
- Dot `.`, provided that it is not the first or last character and provided also that it does not appear consecutively

The domain part may contain any of the following ASCII characters:
- Uppercase and lowercase Latin letters `A` to `Z` and `a` to `z`

> - Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are not all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-numeric (.com, .net, .org, etc.)
```

- Hyphen `-`, provided that it is not the first or last character

**Examples**

The general format is described in [RFC5322 Section 3.4.1](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322#section-3.4.1).
These examples are taken from [WikiPedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_address#Examples), which is also based off of [RFC5322 Section 3.4.1](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322#section-3.4.1).

These are valid eamples:

| String                                           | Explanation                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `simple@example.com`                             | An EmailAddress without any special characters.                       |
| `very.common@example.com`                        | An EmailAddress with a dot inside the local part.                     |
| `disposable.style.email.with+symbol@example.com` | An EmailAddress with dots and a plus sign inside the local part.      |
| `other.email-with-hyphen@example.com`            | An EmailAddress with a dot and hyphens inside the local part.         |

> | `fully-qualified-domain@example.com`             | An EmailAddress with hypehns inside the local part.                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fully-qualified-domain@example.com`             | An EmailAddress with hyphens inside the local part.                   |
```

| `user.name+tag+sorting@example.com`              | An EmailAddress with a dot and plus signs inside the local part       |
| `x@example.com`                                  | An EmailAddress with a single character in the local part.            |
| `example-indeed@strange-example.com`             | An EmailAddress with a hyphen in both the local and domain parts.     |
| `test/test@test.com`                             | An EmailAddress with a slash in the local part.                       |

> | `admin@mailserver1`                              | An EmailAddress with no top-level domain. This is highly discouraged. |

Reviewer: Does `mailserver1` top-level domain on not?

Author: The domain name can be left out, but this is very uncommon and discouraged, but is available to be complied with.

Reviewer: So, `mailserver1` is not a top-level domain?

Reviewer: I don't know. I think no.

Author: Then would it be simpler to not allow emails that do not provide a top level domain? Also, is there anymore changes needed to be done, this has been really helpful 😄 .

Reviewer 2: It is not a requirement to include a regex. However, this is your specification so up to you whether you want to include it.

Author: It has been added for convenience

| `example@s.example`                              | An EmailAddress with a dot in the domain part.                        |
| `mailhost!username@example.org`                  | An EmailAddress with a bang in the local part.                        |
| `user%example.com@example.org`                   | An EmailAddress with a percent sign in the local part.                |
| `user-@example.org`                              | An EmailAddress with a hyphen in the local part.                      |

> These are invalid examples:

Reviewer: I would like also to see invalid example that goes against this requirement:
> Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are not all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, etc.)

Author: Provided valid and invalid examples for top-level domain names.

| String                                                                           | Explanation                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `Abc.example.com`                                                                | No `@` sign seperating the local and domain components.        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Abc.example.com`                                                                | No `@` sign separating the local and domain components.        |
```

**License and Copyright**

Copyright © GraphQL contributors. This specification is licensed under
[OWFa 1.0](https://www.openwebfoundation.org/the-agreements/the-owf-1-0-agreements-granted-claims/owfa-1-0).

# Overview

This Scalar represents a valid electronic mail address using a simplified version of [RFC 5322](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322).

The format of an email address is `local@domain`, where the local part may consist of up to 64 UTF-8 characters, the domain part may consist of up to 255 UTF-8 characters, and the two parts are separated by an `@` sign.

Other formats, including using square-bracketed IP addresses in the domain part, and quoted-string local parts, are not supported for simplicity.

The local part may contain any of the following ASCII characters:
- Uppercase and lowercase Latin letters `A` to `Z` and `a` to `z`
- Digits `0` to `9`
- Printable characters ``!#$%&'*+-/=?^_`{|}~``
- Dot `.`, provided that it is not the first or last character and provided also that it does not appear consecutively

The domain part may contain any of the following ASCII characters:
- Uppercase and lowercase Latin letters `A` to `Z` and `a` to `z`

> - Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, b2b, etc.)
```

> - Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, b2b, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-all-numeric (.com, .net, .org, .b2b, etc.)
```

- Hyphen `-`, provided that it is not the first or last character

**Examples**

The general format is described in [RFC5322 Section 3.4.1](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322#section-3.4.1).
These examples are taken from [WikiPedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_address#Examples), which is also based off of [RFC5322 Section 3.4.1](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322#section-3.4.1).

> These are valid eamples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are valid examples:
```

| `user.name+tag+sorting@example.com`              | An EmailAddress with a dot and plus signs inside the local part       |
| `x@example.com`                                  | An EmailAddress with a single character in the local part.            |
| `example-indeed@strange-example.com`             | An EmailAddress with a hyphen in both the local and domain parts.     |
| `test/test@test.com`                             | An EmailAddress with a slash in the local part.                       |
| `admin@mailserver1`                              | An EmailAddress with no top-level domain. This is highly discouraged. |
| `example@s.example`                              | An EmailAddress with a dot in the domain part.                        |
| `mailhost!username@example.org`                  | An EmailAddress with a bang in the local part.                        |
| `user%example.com@example.org`                   | An EmailAddress with a percent sign in the local part.                |
| `user-@example.org`                              | An EmailAddress with a hyphen in the local part.                      |

> | `non-all-numerical-top@level@domain.g2g`         | An EmailAddress with a non-all-numerical top-level domain.            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `non-all-numerical-top-level@domain.g2g`         | An EmailAddress with a non-all-numerical top-level domain.            |
```

Reviewer: Also if `g2g` is allowed for TLD then my suggestion about
> Digits `0` to `9`, provided that top-level domain names are non-numeric (.com, .net, .org, etc.)

was wrong.

| `A@b@c@example.com`                                                              | Only one is allowed to divide the local and domain components. |
| `a"b(c)d,e:f;g<h>i[j\k]l@example.com`                                            | The local part contains invalid characters.                    |
| `just"not"right@example.com`                                                     | Quotes are not allowed in the local component.                 |
| `this is"not\allowed@example.com`                                                | Spaces and backslashes are not allowed in the local component. |
| `this\ still\"not\\allowed@example.com`                                          | Spaces and backslashes are not allowed in the local component. |
| `1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234+x@example.com` | The local component is longer than 64 characters.              |
| `i_like_underscore@but_its_not_allowed_in_this_part.example.com`                 | Underscores are not allowed in the domain component.           |
| `QA[icon]CHOCOLATE[icon]@test.com`                                               | Non UTF-8 characters are not allowed in the local component.   |

> | `all-numerical-top@level@domain.3778`                                            | Top-level domains cannot be all numerical.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `all-numerical-top-level@domain.3778`                                            | Top-level domains cannot be all numerical.                     |
```
